June 16, 2014 - Inconceivable's 2nd and final crash into the North Saskatchewan River due to the plane sharply gaining speed in the direction of the river while in AUTO2. Summary:

During flights that occurred this day, RC and AUTO1 were fully tuned. Weather conditions were well within acceptable levels. AUTO2 tuning was underway with throttle loops and ascent loops fairly well tuned. The plane would maintain altitude and straight and level flight while in certain AUTO2 blocks. The ascent loop had been trimmed out fairly well with a good combination of throttle and elevator being used to gain altitude. It was decided to put the plane into AUTO 2 and have it circle the standby waypoint. The plane was 70m above the altitude of the standby waypoint. The plane was flying in the direction of the river. Upon putting the plane into AUTO 2 the plane started descending sharply. The plane overspeed. The pilot put the plane into manual but was unable to recover the plane. The plane crash landed into the North Saskatchewan river.

There are two variables that are available in the airframe file. Max Pitch Setpoint and Min Pitch Setpoint. These variable limit the angle the plane makes the ground. The first variable is set so that the plane will not stall when attempting to climb. The second variable should be set so that the plane will not overspeed during descent. This second variable was set too large. In the future ensure that this is a more conservative value for the specific airframe. The EPP FPV airframe has shown not to handle speed very well so a value closer to -10 degrees should have been set. As well when switching into full AUTO2 for the first time, keep waypoints at the same altitude of the plane. Progressively have the plane move to waypoints where it will have to change altitude.

Please note that the timestamps on these files are 6 hours late because the time was set incorrectly on the autopilot laptop. The first flight was at 2:08pm, and the last at 8:11pm, both on June 16th.

The log file with the crash is 14_06_17__02_11_39. The crash happens at 950s.
